Hannah:
Baby.
Coffee.
Hot coffee.
Come on.
Wake up, okay?
We got to go get Jessa.
- Adam?
- Yes?
We have to go
and get Jessa.
She's not done
with rehab.
Yeah, well, we have
to pick up Shoshanna,
we have to rent a car,
which I can't do because
I'm 24 years old,
so it's time to wake up.
Do you hear me?
- Come on.
- ( groans )
It's not fun
for me.
- You're gonna hurt yourself.
- ( groans )
Are you okay?
( singing with radio )
♪ Try to tell you no ♪
♪ But my body keeps on
telling you yes ♪
♪ Try to tell you stop ♪
♪ But your lipstick got me
so out of breath... ♪
It doesn't even
make sense.
♪ Waking up in the morning
probably hating myself... ♪
I sound just like him.
♪ Waking up feeling satisfied
and guilty as hell ♪
♪ But, baby... ♪
( music stops )
I hope Jessa's at least,
like, appreciative.
She should be.
We are really
giving of ourselves,
being, like, models
of female friendship.
And giving up so much
valuable writing time
all for her good.
This isn't for my health.
Adam:
That's bullshit.
- Excuse me?
- You're not doing her any good
by taking her out of rehab.
But she said it was time
for her to go.
Oh, wow.
When was the last time
an addict lied?
Oh, my God,
that's so true.
They totally lie.
My friend Rachel
is fully addicted
to blueberry Red Bull,
and she always tells me
that she hasn't had one,
but she tells me, like,
with a blue tongue.
I just don't really think
you understand the nature
of female friendship.
You're right, I don't.
And I don't want to
if it involves ignoring
all logic and being
totally hysterical.
Well, you're not really there
for your friends in any way.
I mean, come to think of it,
like when Chad busted open
his knee...
I couldn't get involved
because it was under
very illegal and illicit
circumstances.
- Okay.
- I mean, Adam was
there for you
when you went
totally batshit insane
and decided to cut
your hair like a little boy
on a fancy cookie box.
I just think
that women get stuck
in this, like,
vortex of
guilt and jealousy
with each other
that keep them from seeing
situations clearly.
"Women get stuck"?
Okay, now you sound like
one of those guys
who thinks a woman
should never be president
because her menstruation
will cloud her judgment.
But they shouldn't,
like, be president
because it could--
their-- their judgment.
Okay, well, Jessa
wants to leave.
Well, you can't always
get what you want.
But if you try
sometimes,
you just might
find you...
- ( snickers )
- ...get what you need.
( laughs )
What's funny?
( sniffs )
I thought
you'd gone already.
I was thrown in a room
without any human contact--
no food, no water--
for hours.
Why didn't
you come rescue me?
Role-playing is not
my forte, my love.
I was in fucking solitary.
But they can't outsmart me.
There was no lock on the door.
- ( laughs )
- Stupid fucks.
But truth be told,
I'd sort of like to be
in jail for a day, you know?
It's this feeling
you really can't simulate.
Poor thing.
You're too young
to understand
which thoughts
are useless to you.
All right.
When you're older,
your mind learns
to let go of things
that don't suit you.
You start to live
with the same ignorance
as the very young.
Of course, being young
is terrifying as well.
You have all
of the knowledge,
but none of the language
to dissuade yourself
from the horrible truths
of the world.
- Mm-hmm.
- I feel the utmost sympathy
for my daughter.
I did everything I could
to make the world
a less gargantuan
place for her.
You don't
even talk to her.
That's just
one of the ways
that I protect her.
That makes sense.
( music playing )
What's your
favorite utensil?
Um...
my favorite utensil is...
I never thought about it.
Wait, seriously?
That's, like, insane.
Like, what if you
had to pick?
I guess a fork.
Okay, that is crazy.
Like, why would you want
cold metal prongs stabbing
you in the tongue
when instead
you could have your food
delivered into your mouth
on, like, a cool,
soft, pillowy cloud?
What did you just say?
How was it?
It was fine. I saw
some Raggedy Ann dolls.
So, what do you
want to eat?
Uh, what are
you guys getting?
Biscuits and gravy
and chicken fried steak.
Well, they don't list
their calories here,
so, A, I'm not eating,
and, B, that is illegal.
I'm really, really
not hungry,
so maybe you can
just order me pancakes
and turkey bacon.
And then I guess if they
don't have turkey bacon,
I'll have regular
bacon and a milk shake.
Thank you.
- Where are you going?
- To pee.
I highly doubt
they have turkey bacon.
If they have turkey bacon,
I would be shocked.
Holla, koala.
Hey.
Mom, don't you think
that's a bit much?
This place
smells like kimchi.
Yeah, well, now
it smells like a Sephora.
Well, what would
you rather have,
kimchi or a Sephora?
Yo, where you at?
You wanna come see
my new place?
My mom is here
and she's helping me a ton.
Oh, my God, I would love to,
but I'm actually, um...
I am up in Woodstock with Adam
'cause we're doing this,
like, couples getaway
to just, you know,
relax and recharge.
Charlie and I used to
do stuff like that
all the time.
Do not utter his name.
Just saying his name
gives him power.
I'm picking Jessa up
from rehab.
All of us are,
Adam and Shoshanna and me.
Wait, so you lied to me?
For one second.
- Give me the phone.
- I lied to you one second
ago for a second
and then I took it
back a second later.
That doesn't even count.
Yeah, but you were
gonna lie to me.
What, you don't think
I can handle it, Hannah?
That's not it.
By the way, why are you
even picking Jessa up?
- Doesn't she have,
like, a magic carpet?
- ( laughs )
Uh, just 'cause
that's the rules of rehab.
She needs somebody to sign
a paper for her so she can go.
Well, since when does Jessa
follow the rules?
And by the way,
since when is Jessa
even a drug addict?
She's, like,
a life addict.
I gotta be honest.
I'm feeling pretty
left out right now.
Oh, I hate that, baby.
Oh.
Am I on speakerphone?
- No.
- Hi, Hannah.
How are you?
Hi, Evie.
How's it going?
Marnie, are you saying
you actually would have
wanted to come?
Oh, my God, no.
Of course not.
I just didn't want
anyone to go.
Okay, that makes sense.
You know what?
You guys need to
work this out.
And, Hannah, you got
to come over and see
Marnie's new shitbox.
Mom.
I'm, like,
unrelentingly itchy.
Is that a road trip thing?
What do you have
the rocking chair for?
Uh, I wasn't hungry,
so I bought a souvenir.
It's a rustic souvenir.
It was, like, $14.
My friend Zeva
has always wanted one.
She is going to freak
when she sees that I have one.
Do you think the donut's
gonna help my nausea
or do you think
it's gonna hurt it?
I had to take
my seat belt off.
It smells like
straight ketchup.
I'm so bored.
Are you guys so bored?
Boredom is bullshit.
Boredom is for lazy
people who have
no imagination.
I will never be bored
as long as there's Halloween.
I hate Halloween.
This road trip
is just so unremarkable.
You know what I mean?
It's just so similar
to other road trips
that I've seen in,
I don't know, various media.
It's like a Don Henley song.
What were you expecting?
Something I could
write about in my book.
I mean, we're picking
our friend up from rehab
and I just thought
there'd be something I could
write about in my book.
That seems like
a very rich area,
but I'm just realizing
that this road trip
is not a metaphor.
It just isn't.
And this rocking chair
is so pointy.
It's not giving me
any room to express myself.
My head's caught.
- ( TV playing )
- ( laughing )
( laughing )
- Can you turn the TV off?
- What?
Oh, me?
Oh, yeah,
no, it's fine.
I've totally seen this one
a bunch anyways.
Can you shut
your computer down
now, please?
What?
Can you shut
your computer down
now, please?
I'm trying to finish
five pages today
so I can stay on schedule
for my publisher, okay?
You're always typing
on your computer.
Yeah, that's 'cause
this trip is kind of
a kink in my schedule
- and I need--
- Do you guys want to
play Truth or Dare?
- How do you play?
- Um...
( chuckles )
You've never played
Truth or Dare?
Well, I'm aware
that there's a game
that's called that.
Truth or Dare is one
of the most fun games
in the world.
( laughs )
And it's the game
that teaches children
how to behave like adults.
- Okay.
- I was playing Truth or Dare
the first time I got fingered.
Okay, do not,
like, share a bunch
of really good truths
before we even
start the game.
That's, like,
really wasteful.
Okay, so...
I say, "Truth or Dare,"
right?
And you have to pick,
uh, truth or dare.
- Okay.
- But you have to do it.
Otherwise, like--
you have to.
- Yeah.
- Okay.
- Okay, truth or dare?
- Dare.
Okay, um...
okay, I dare you
to go to the ice machine--
no, okay--
no, no, no, okay.
I dare you-- okay, no.
I dare you to kiss...
Hannah.
Okay, that is
an incredibly lame dare
because that is already
my boyfriend and we kiss
all the time.
- Ah.
- Yeah, you did it!
You did it!
- It's your first dare!
- That doesn't feel good.
Here, just watch
us play, okay?
- Watch us play.
- Okay, we're gonna do it.
- We're just gonna show you.
- We're gonna do a thing.
- Truth or dare?
- Okay, truth.
Okay, what is
the most upsetting thought--
Wait, don't make it,
like, too--
- like, I want a truth--
- Okay, bedtime.
Night time.
Um, so...
bed is now?
Adam: Yeah.
Good night, Shosh.
Let's play in the car
tomorrow.
Yeah, okay.
Okay.
Thank you very much
for coming.
You really didn't have
to and I know that--
I'm pissed
that we can't fuck.
Okay, but we're in the room
with another person, so...
Yeah, well,
I just can't sleep well
if I don't come.
Hannah:
When we get home, it is
gonna be a come parade.
- Ahem.
- Adam: I wanna come now.
You know what?
You do that.
You just-- you do it,
and I'm gonna go.
And I'll come back
whenever the come parade
has, like, paraded on by.
Why are you
being so grumpy?
I'm not being grumpy.
Are you gonna
be nicer to me?
I'm gonna try.
Are you gonna turn
your mood around?
I'm gonna try.
I can do it.
I'm gonna do it.
- Are you gonna turn
that frown upside down?
- I'm gonna do it.
( bag rustling )
Shosh, you can
come back, okay?
We finished.
Adam just has
to towel off.
Oh, my God.
Is that Chex Mix?
- Yeah, I'm allergic.
- Thank you.
Did you have fun sex?
I don't know.
Maybe now he'll
actually let me sleep.
Um, do you think
Adam's right?
About there being
no value in watching
sitcoms?
No, he's insane.
No, about the fact
that we're not really
helping Jessa
by retrieving her from rehab
when she needs to be there.
I don't know. I wasn't
really aware that she had
a problem until just now.
Like, she's so pretty
and guys love her
and she doesn't
even really want a job,
so, like, she really has
nothing to worry about.
You think Jessa has
nothing to worry about?
Mm-mm, I lived with her
for, like, a year.
She's as easy
as they come.
What about all
the binge drinking
and the heavy drug use?
She just
does that for fun.
Shosh, she got divorced,
like, seven months ago.
And, like, earned
a bunch of money from it.
Like, that's
totally fun.
And before that,
the trail of broken affairs
and the fact that
she's now in rehab.
Uh, yeah,
like, totally cool.
It's, like, a rite of
passage for celebrities.
She probably has already
met Ryan "Phil-ee-pay"
and they're
probably engaged.
By the way, it's "Phil-a-pee."
I heard it on "Extra."
It's definitely
"Phil-ee-pay."
It's 100%
"Phil-a-pee."
I mean, I read
his autobiography,
so I think I would know.
Whatever, Jessa
is no bowl of fucking
cherries, okay?
I know that she
is beautiful and glamorous,
but she has a deep well
of sadness inside her
that most people
don't detect.
And I didn't even
know about it in college
because all she did
was dance on the quad
in rain boots and a bikini
and, like, juggle knives,
and then one day,
she got really sick.
She goes to
the student health center.
Turns out to be
a kidney infection.
So a bunch of us
go over to her room
to bring her, like,
magazines and snacks
and, you know,
donut holes and shit,
and we're all talking
and she's telling great stories.
She looks like Ava Gardner.
She doesn't look sick at all.
Then we say we have to go
to class 'cause it's finals.
She's, like,
begging us to stay.
I was like,
"Dude, I've got to go.
I have finals."
As I'm closing the door,
I see that
she's just crying
'cause that's how badly
she doesn't want to be
left alone.
That's, like,
a really sad story,
but I think
you're probably
remembering it wrong.
Like, you were
probably the one
who was crying.
I'm really happy that
she's gonna be home
for graduation.
Like, I really want
her in my photos.
Are you nervous
about graduation?
Oh, my God.
Not at all.
Like, whatever I do,
it'll be better
than school.
Uh, I hate
to break it to you,
but school
is the best gig
you'll ever have.
I mean, your job
is basically just
to be yourself.
That's why I
apply to grad school
every single year.
Honestly, the only people
that I ever hear say that
are people who don't
make any money.
Oh, Adam, you were right.
It's such a beautiful country.
Hannah:
I mean, no wonder
truckers do cocaine.
This is boring as hell.
Can we turn the air off?
I feel very nauseous.
What are you doing?
- What are you doing?
- Hiking.
Uh, no, 'cause we
have to pick Jessa up.
She's not
going anywhere.
You want something
to write about, well,
here it is.
The glory of God
is all around us, Hannah.
Trees, frogs,
birdy-birds.
What is wrong with people?
Look how fun this is!
I hate this!
My friend Rachel
saw a guy giving a girl
full-on cunnilingus
on a hike just like this
on a day just like this.
No! No!
Come on, kid, let's go.
You can do it.
Yeah, but you
know what, Adam?
I don't want to do it.
And it's really liberating
to say no to shit you hate.
So you go ahead.
You live your truth.
I'll be here
living my truth.
Okay.
Or we could all
just go back to the car!
Adam:
See you in a bit!
Hannah:
But I have no stick!
Shosh?
Ray's third worst scenario
in life-- thank you--
is a road trip
with a spontaneous detour.
Who has a third
worst anything?
- Who doesn't?
- I don't.
I don't catalogue my mind.
It's unhealthy.
Adam, you are, like,
so dementedly helpful.
Okay, cool.
No, like, you seem
like you genuinely
like helping people.
Hannah needs so much
and you give and give
and give like a saint.
- It goes both ways.
- No, okay, I'm serious.
Think about it. What would
she have done during this
period of mental unrest
if her boyfriend had been,
like, an actual human being
existing in society?
What if you had, like,
a job or responsibilities
or places to be
during the day like
her best friend?
She is my best friend.
Oh, my God.
Ira Glass on iPhone:
It's not always so clear
what the best way is
to help somebody without
unintended consequences,
either the people
being helped
or the people
doing the helping.
We have two stories today,
including a sheriff
who was trying to do right
by marijuana growers.
From WBEZ Chicago,
it's "This American Life."
Oh, thank God
you're still here.
How was group?
Who confessed to what?
Who screamed at who?
- Tell me everything.
- Yeah.
- That girl
with the tramp stamp...
- Yeah, yeah.
...told us she slept
with her brother-in-law.
Boring or what?
Yeah, I could've
told you that.
Truth be told,
Jessamyn,
I've been
pants-shittingly scared
that you'd
departed already
before we'd had
the chance
to properly fuck.
Wait, we were never
going to fuck.
Oh, yeah, we were
always gonna fuck.
We decided that
the moment we met, babe.
The moment we met,
if I recall,
I was being held down
in a chair by a woman
named Frank.
Right, and we shared
a look, right? Remember?
A look in which
I communicated,
"Are we gonna fuck?"
And your look
responded, "Yes,
we are gonna fuck."
Oh, my God.
You were almost
charming until now.
That was before my bag
of stash ran out.
What stash?
Percs, Vics, Klonies.
The usual suspects.
At my age, group
is almost unbearable
unless you have
something to smooth out
the jagged little edges
and the nattering
fucking chitchat.
I've got one
Adderall left.
There we go, my baby.
- ( drawer shuts )
- ( Jasper sighs )
You can have a seat.
This'll take a minute.
Well, can I
walk around?
Well, maybe not
right here.
It's annoying to me.
- Which one's your sister?
- Her.
- Hi.
- Hello.
You understand your sister
has been removed
from our program
for various offenses,
including fraternizing
and distributing a zine
of provocative cartoons.
What's fraternizing?
- I joined a frat.
- Intense sexualized
socializing.
Okay.
Can I get my pot back,
please?
- You want your pot back?
- Yeah.
Sure, I just need
to check with the police
and make sure
they're okay with that.
( scoffs )
Whatever. Fine.
We believe that Jessa
would benefit from
additional treatment,
but we can't
keep her here.
I totally get it.
Let me just sign the waiver
and we'll get out of here.
There's nothing to sign.
We have an open-door policy.
But she told me
that there was something
that I needed to sign
so I could come get her.
No, we offered to drive her
to the airport,
but she said you were
coming here for her.
There's an airport?
It's a very small one.
( groans )
Hannah:
I think it's really fucked up
that you lied to me,
and I think it's
even more fucked up
how you left me, okay?
At your father's house
with no way to get home.
I had to catch a ride
to the train station
from a pregnant teen.
She was in labor.
And then I took the train
home by myself
and I felt
like a huge loser.
And it made me remember
what it was like in college
when you'd say,
"Oh, meet me at the Free
Palestine party."
Then I'd find out you're
over at the Israel house.
And so I just
wish you would get it
that this is not okay
behavior for a friend.
Okay, listen, it was
all weird back then.
None of it was on purpose.
Okay.
And your hair
looks fantastic.
You know what?
Thank you,
but this haircut
happened upon me in
a very challenging time
that you weren't
present for.
I feel very glad
you like it
because every single
morning when I wake up,
I question it.
Okay.
What-- why--
what is-- why?
- What is all this?
- I just missed you so much.
I missed you.
And I would
really like it if you
would please stop leaving
'cause I'm really
looking forward to you
being around more.
So, please--
- just please, please.
- Okay, I will. I am.
I'm-- I am done
with all that.
Okay, 'cause I hate it.
I hate it.
Okay.
Let's get out of
this fucking nunnery.
( laughs )
♪ Try to tell you no ♪
♪ But my body keeps on
telling you yes ♪
♪ Try to tell you stop... ♪
If ever you want to go
to a meeting or whatever...
Um, yeah.
Sure, maybe.
Okay, cool.
Just let me know.
Cool.
( music playing )
( woman vocalizing )
♪ I could have died
that night ♪
♪ Way back in June ♪
♪ Saw my soul hang heavy ♪
♪ Above the room ♪
♪ Slack jawed,
I confessed ♪
♪ Bit by my hubris ♪
♪ I was scooped out,
obsessed by the moon ♪
♪ I was completely
not me ♪
♪ But, baby,
I'm coming clean ♪
♪ The doctor said to you ♪
♪ Son, there's nothing
you can do ♪
♪ Just leave her here
and wait until the day ♪
♪ I was shivering in bed ♪
♪ Eyes rolled
back in my head ♪
♪ I was begging
for you to go away ♪
♪ I was
completely not me ♪
♪ Baby, I'm coming clean ♪
♪ Completely not me ♪
( vocalizing )